# Algorithms-Lab-AssociationList
CSCI 1913 lab #10

This assignment implemented dictionary similar to the one found in python but by using a linear, singly-linked list. Such a list is sometimes called an association list, a term borrowed from the programming language Lisp. An association list is a linear, singly-linked list of nodes. Each node in an association list has three slots, called key, value, and next. The key and value slots point to objects of specific types. The next slot points to the next node in the list (or to null). Each node associates its key object with its value object. Association lists have the following operations, all of which involve traversing lists and searching for a node with a given key object. You can get the value object from a node. It’s the object that is associated with the node’s key object. You can change the value object in a node. After that, the key object is associated with a different value object. You can delete the node that contains a key. After that, the key object is not associated with a value object. If you cannot find a node, then you can add a new one that contains a key object and a value object. After that, the key object is associated with the value object. As a result of these operations, you can use an association list something like a dictionary. For example, the key objects might be String’s that are English words for numbers. The value objects might be Integer’s that correspond to those words. If you give the association list an English word, then you can get back its corresponding number. Association lists work by doing linear search. As a result, if an association list has n keys, then each of the operations described above will require O(n) comparisons. Later in this course, we’ll discuss more efficient alternatives to association lists. These will need only O(log n) or even O(1) comparisons.
